- [Instructor] We now know
how to connect our application container
with our explorecali database container.
However, the database connection parameters
and migration scripts
are bundled in the application.
In this video, we will create a new Spring profile
that leverages Spring expression language
and the flyaway location settings.
Before we start, let's make sure
that the previous images
and containers are cleaned out
and we still have the container running
from the previous video, so let's clean that out.
Our database container is still running and that's good.
Now let's remove the image.
And the image is removed.
Now let's look at a new properties file I've created,
application-docker.properties.
It's pretty much identical
to the application.mysql.properties
but we're using Spring expression language
so we can substitute in command line environment variables
into the profile,
so we'll have a value server, a value port,
a value dbuser and a value dbpassword
that would have to exist on the command line
when we run our container
to connect to the database.
And we're actually going to make a copy
of our flyaway migration scripts
into our local file system,
so we need to tell flyaway
where to look for those.
By default it'll look under the class path
and that's why we just put them in resources
but we're going to actually have them copied
into a different place in our local file system
and so, this filesystem:/var/migration,
that will be a folder within the container that's running
and we're going to map that folder
to our external file system on the server
and then let's look at our change to our Dockerfile.
And the only change to the Dockerfile here
is that we are using Docker
as the active profile.
So, let's build the jar for this application.
So, that built our jar
and now let's create the image.
I forgot the dot at the end there.
So, now we have created the image
and now I'm going to on my own file system
this is in the exercise files,
source, main, resources, db,
I'm going to copy this folder
and in my home folder
I've made a copy of the migration scripts,
so this is our very long command line
that we're going to use to launch a container.
So, let me grab that and then I'll speak over
all the options.
So, we will tell Docker to run a new container,
we'll name the container ec-app like we've done before,
we're exposing port 8080 again
and now we have a new option called V
which we're gonna expose a volume,
so we're going to have a tilde
which means on my machine
that will give my home folder /db/migration,
so on this command line,
you have to have the full path,
the tilde is a shortcut to get to my home folder,
that setting might be different on your machine,
you might have to say all the way back to /users/whatever
to get to that folder
or you can set up an environment variable
but this is just a shortcut that I'm using there.
Then we have the server we're going to interact with
is ec-mysql and now we're gonna set up
our environment variables
that will be injected into our Docker properties,
so here we say at the command line,
the server is ec-mysql,
the port is 3306,
the dbuser is cali_user,
the dbpassword is cali_pass
and now we're going to link into the ec-mysql image
and this is from our image
that we created called explorecali.
And let's look at the logs.
And it's still running, it's taking a while,
so we'll do it again and is it finished?
It's finished running.
So, let's send this request again
to see if we get the tours back.
And we do.